+++
draft = false
title = "Basic authentication"
date = 2014-07-29T10:55:33Z
[menu.sidebar_v1_3]
    parent = "access-control"
+++

Basic Authentication is a standard authentication mechanism supported by every standards-compliant http server, it is also supported by almost every
single web browser, which mkes it an excellent access control method for smaller APIs.

However, a serious drawback of Basic Authentication is that credentials are transferred in encoded plaintext over the wire, this can be a serious concern
for API owners and should therefore only ever be used in conjunction with TLS such as SSL.

A basic auth request will have an `Authorization` header where the value will be of the form:

    Basic base64Encode(username:password)
    
This means a real request would look something like:

    GET /api/widgets/12345 HTTP/1.1
    Host: localhost:8080
    Authorization: Basic am9obkBzbWl0aC5jb206MTIzNDU2Nw==
    Cache-Control: no-cache
    
In the above example the username is `john@smith.com` and the password is `1234567`

Tyk supports using basic authentication as an access key in the same way as any other access method. To enable a key as a basic auth key, certain fields in a user session
need to be enabled, and the API Definition needs to be set up to allow basic auth. 
 
to get started, lets set up an API for basic auth - this is what the important parts of your definition should look like:

    {
        "name": "Tyk Test API",
        ...
        "use_basic_auth": true,
        "use_keyless": false,
        "use_oauth2": false,
        "auth": {
            "auth_header_name": ""
        },
        ...
    }
    
In this example we have explicitly set other methods to false and cleared fields - in reality you do not need to set `use_keyless` and `use_oauth2` to false as they
will default to false if unset, this example is just being explicit in the case that you are converting a configuration to use basic auth.

For a user session object, to enable basic auth, simply set the relevant fields in the session:

    {
        ...
        "hmac_enabled": false,
        "hmac_string": "",
        "basic_auth_data": {
            "password": "mickey-mouse"
        }
        ...
    }

Notice the `basic_auth_data` section - this is all that is really required, if an API is basic auth enabled, any keys that are retrieved will check this
field for a password and compare it to the password encoded in the request.

### A note on creating basic auth keys
 
Basic authentication keys are not created the same way as other keys, since the key ID is not generated by the system a basic auth key cannot use the 
`/tyk/keys/create` endpoint, and instead should `POST` to `/tyk/keys/{username}`, this will *ADD* a key to the system. Subsequent requests will overwrite
this entry, sending a `PUT` request will update the entry. 

Please see the [Tyk REST API documentation](/rest-api/api-key-management) for full details on each of the endpoints and how they work.